While AVDs are great for testing your app across a wide range of different hardware and software, you should always test your app on at least one physical Android smartphone or tablet. However, Android Studio’s ability to recognize a connected Android device is notoriously hit and miss.

If you’ve attached your device to your development machine but are encountering an Error installing APK message whenever you try to install your APK, or your device isn’t even appearing in the Select Deployment Target window, then try the following fixes:

Check USB debugging is enabled. 

Open your device’s Settings, then select Developer Options, and make sure USB Debugging is enabled. If you don’t see Developer Options in the Settings menu, then select About Phone and keep tapping Build Number until a You are now a developer notification appears. Return to the main Settings screen, and you should find that Developer Options has been added.

Check your smartphone or tablet’s screen. 

Sometimes your device may require some additional input before it connects to your development machine. For example, it may be asking you to choose between different modes, or to explicitly authorize the connection.

Make sure you have the correct USB driver installed. 

If you're developing on Windows, then you’ll need to download the appropriate OEM USB driver for your device. If you’re a Nexus user, then you can download the Google USB driver through Android Studio’s SDK Manager.

Check that your device meets your project’s minimum SDK requirements. 

You’ll find your project’s minimum SDK in your module-level gradle.build file, and can check what version of Android is installed on your device by opening its Settings and swiping to the About Phone section.

Try restarting your adb (Android Debug Bridge) process. 

Open a Terminal or Command Prompt window, and then change directory (cd), so it’s pointing at your platform-tools window, for example:

1
cd /Users/Downloads/adt-bundle-mac/sdk/platform-tools
Then, terminate and restart the adb process by entering the following commands, one after the other:

1
./adb kill-server
1
./adb start-server
Restart everything! 

If all else fails, then try disconnecting and then reconnecting your device, restarting your device, restarting Android Studio and, as an absolute last resort, restarting your development machine.

